---
tags:
  - How_to_Learn_a_New_Language
  - Work_Tie_In
---
Following discussion with both the Senior Developer and the Team Manager regarding how they each approach learning a new language, two distinct approaches were identified. The Senior Developer took a more hands-on approach, while the Team Manager's focus was from a much broader perspective.

The approach taken by the Team Manager focused firstly on general programming concepts common amongst many, if not, all programming languages. This allows him to focus on functionality and view the new syntax as alternative ways of expressing existing knowledge. Such approach both relies on and solidifies knowledge of fundamentals while allowing for gained knowledge to be applied on a broader scale thus resulting in a strong, in-depth understanding. Programmatically, such approach could be broadly compared to the use of libraries or modularising code such that syntax is as much of a secondary consideration as possible since the building blocks and core functionality have already been established.

The Senior Developer, conversely, took a somewhat alternative approach much more akin to my own in that his focus was on understanding existing code and extrapolating that information in order to solve a particular problem. Additionally, his main questions when reading existing code relate to the underlying thought process of the previous developer, i.e. why a particular line of code or method was written in such a way so that he could apply that to his own solutions. While this approach - much like any other - still relies on a solid knowledge of fundamentals, it is somewhat more pragmatic in that work can be begun with very little time spent on "learning". As a result, this means that the learning which takes place in this approach is directly related to the immediate requirements, which may prove both beneficial and disadvantageous depending on one's goals in learning a language; While the time allocated to learning is greatly reduced by omitting that which may be unnecessary at present, this approach runs the risk of developing a very surface level understanding with progression to more advanced concepts being highly dependent on exposure. Furthermore, the initial time saved may be offset entirely as requirements broaden and incorporate more complex or advanced topics.

Comparatively, there are benefits to both approaches depending on the particular circumstances, therefore the decision regarding which to adopt appears to depend largely on the case at hand and reason for learning a language. As someone who leans heavily towards the approach described by the Senior Developer, the above analysis has shown that adoption of the Team Manager's approach may prove greatly beneficial in order to reduce the bottleneck experienced when advancing beyond common or intermediate level topics. Ultimately, based on these discussions, it is clear that the language itself becomes somewhat secondary to more in-depth understanding as past a certain point, progression is slowed more by deficiencies in understanding concepts than syntax.