---
tags:
  - Work_Tie_In
  - Foundations_of_Professional_Software_Dev
---
Conversation with the Team Manager revealed his views and guidance on the subject of [[1ST YEAR/Foundations of Professional Software Dev/Testing/Testing|Testing]]. Of particular importance was the issue of how developers approach the testing procedure and where in the [[Development Process]] they write tests. In general, it was noted that tests play a key part in development and contribute positively towards both good quality code and fast turnaround. Ultimately, he was of the opinion that [[Test Driven Development]] and the ability to write good tests are of utmost importance in terms of an individual developer's skillset as well as utility within the wider scope of the [[Development Cycle]].

In reference to testing integrating with the larger development workflow, a good ticket system leads to ease of test writing as acceptance criteria can easily be constructed into specific test cases. Furthermore, he noted that writing good test assists the developer greatly in identifying the minimal change set which accomplishes the greatest value. By extension, these benefits often result in cleaner code which is more maintainable and accessible with the caveat that the tests themselves must also be maintained as new features, refactoring, or other code changes are implemented.

The Team Manager was of the opinion that models such as the [[Testing Pyramid]] and the [[Testing Trophy]] should be considered when tackling decisions surrounding the design of a test suite in terms of the volume of various types of tests. The advantage of taking the time to consider such factors encourages the developer to write tests which reflect the way in which the software is interacted with rather than too much or too little time on a particular type of test. While he did consider that many developers spend too little time and thought on testing, ultimately the overarching philosophy that cost vs payoff should be considered not only within the scope of testing, but throughout the software development process as a whole.

It was noted that in many cases, developers view tests as an afterthought which can easily lead them away from best practices and in turn, prove detrimental to the codebase as a whole in terms of maintaining cleanliness. As an alternative to this, the Team Manager recommended not only that more time be spent on writing tests, but that developers and teams should adopt a [[Test Driven Development]] approach.

By adopting the principles of Test Driven Development, the development process as a whole increases in efficiency which not only benefits the business but also the developers individually. By writing tests first, in consideration with the Testing Pyramid or Testing Trophy models, developers can begin making code changes with a clear understanding of what is required and a metric of success. Additionally, tests written first are less likely to confusing, badly written, or hard to maintain as they are written with the purpose of providing a metric of success and description of the intended outputs rather than to validate existing code which may itself be flawed. This ties in with the Team Manager's opinion that the challenge of programming lies not with what to write, but what not to write. Thus the ability to achieve goals succinctly and efficiently forms a key skill within a developers arsenal - one in which test writing and, specifically, test driven development contributes positively towards.